A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from
nominating any more Labour life Peers
M Ps tomorrow. Mr. Michael Foot has
put down a resolution on the subject
and he is to be backed by Mr. Will
Griffiths, M P for Manchester Exchange.
A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from nominating
meeting of Labour 0M Ps tomorrow. Mr. Michael
Foot has put down a resolution on the subject
and he is to be backed by Mr. Will Griffiths,
0M P for Manchester Exchange.
Though they may gather some Left-wing support, a
large majority of Labour M Ps are likely to
Foot's line will be that as Labour M Ps
opposed the Government Bill which brought
life peers into existence, they should not
now put forward nominees. He believes
that the House of Lords should be abolished
and that Labour should not take any steps
which would appear to "prop up" an out-dated
institution.
Though they may gather some Left-wing
M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot-
be that as Labour M Ps opposed the
Government Bill which brought life peers
forward nominees. He believes that the
that Labour should not take any steps
which would appear to "prop up" an out-
Though they may gather some Left-wing support, a
large majority of Labour 0M Ps are likely to turn
down the Foot-Griffiths resolution. Mr. Foot's line
will be that as Labour 0M Ps opposed the Govern-
ment Bill which brought life peers into existence, they
that the House of Lords should be abolished and
that Labour should not take any steps which would
appear to "prop up" an out-dated institution.
Since 1958, 13 Labour life Peers and
Peeresses have been created. Most Labour
of the House of Lords, but while it remains
Labour has to have an adequate number of
members. THE two rival African Nationalist
Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to
get together to face the challenge from Sir
Roy Welensky, the Federal Premier.
sentiment would still favour the abolition
of the House of Lords, but while it remains
Labour has to have an adequate number
of members. THE two rival African
Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia
have agreed to get together to face
the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky,
the Federal Premier.
would still favour the abolition of the House
of Lords, but while it remains Labour has to
have an adequate number of members. THE
two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern
Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the
challenge from Sir Roy Welensky, the Federal Premier.
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence
Party (280,000 members) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African
National Congress (400,000) will meet in London today
to discuss a common course of action. Sir Roy is
in Northern Rhodesia, but the Colonial Secretary,
Mr. Iain Macleod, is insisting on a policy of change.
United National Independence Party
(280,000 members) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's
African National Congress (400,000) will
meet in London today to discuss a common
course of action. Sir Roy is violently
opposed to Africans getting an elected
majority in Northern Rhodesia, but the
Colonial Secretary, Mr. Iain Macleod,
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United
National Independence Party (280,000 members)
and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National
Congress (400,000) will meet in London today
to discuss a common course of action.
Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans
getting an elected majority in Northern
Rhodesia, but the Colonial Secretary, Mr. Iain
Macleod, is insisting on a policy of change.
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting
the London talks on the Protectorate's
"We want to discuss what to do if the
British Government gives in to Sir Roy and
to be demonstrations." Yesterday Sir Roy's
chief aide, Mr. Julius Greenfield, telephoned
his chief a report on his talks with
Mr. Macmillan at Chequers.
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is
Protectorate's future. Said Mr. Nkumbula
last night: "We want to discuss what to
do if the British demonstrations."
Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide, Mr.
Julius Greenfield, telephoned his chief
a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan
at Chequers.
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting
the London talks on the Protectorate's
future. Said Mr. Nkumbula last night:
"We want to discuss what to do if the
British Government gives in to Sir Roy
and the talks fall through. There are bound
to be demonstrations." Yesterday Sir Roy's
chief aide, Mr. Julius Greenfield, telephoned
his chief a report on his talks with Mr.
Macmillan at Chequers.
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at
Lancaster House despite the crisis which had
blown up. He has now revealed his full plans
to the Africans and Liberals attending. These
plans do not give the Africans the overall
will meet to discuss the function of a
proposed House of Chiefs.
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference
at Lancaster House despite the crisis
which had blown up. He has now revealed
attending. These plans do not give the
Africans the overall majority they are
seeking. African delegates are studying
them today. The conference will meet
to discuss the function of a proposed
House of Chiefs.
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at
Lancaster House despite the crisis which had
blown up. He has now revealed his full plans
plans do not give the Africans the overall majo-
rity they are seeking. African delegates are
studying them today. The conference will meet
to discuss the function of a proposed House
of Chiefs.
MR. IAIN MACLEOD, the Colonial Secretary, denied
in the Commons last night that there have been
The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has
been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties -
the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party.
Minister of the Central African Federation, went
to Chequers at the week-end for talks with
Mr. Iain Macleod, the Colonial Secretary, denied
been secret negotiations on the Northern Rhodesia's
future. The Northern Rhodesia conference in
London has been boycotted by the two main
settlers' parties - the United Federal Party
and the Dominion Party. But representatives
of Sir Roy Welensky, Prime Minister of the
Central African Federation, went to Chequers
at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan.
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation.
M Ps yesterday: "I have no knowledge of secret negotiations."
He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal
Government. But the final decision remained with the British
Government. Mr. James Callaghan, Labour's Colonial spokesman,
said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by
refusing to sit round the conference table.
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation.
Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end
meeting. But he told M Ps yesterday: "I
have no knowledge of secret negotiations."
He said Britain had an obligation to consult
the Federal Government. But the final
decision remained with the British Government.
Mr. James Callaghan, Labour's Colonial
delay progress in the talks by refusing
to sit round the conference table.
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Fede-
meeting. But he told M Ps yesterday: "I
have no knowledge of secret negotiations." He
said Britain had an obligation to consult
the Federal Government. Mr. James Callaghan,
Labour's Colonial spokesman, said Sir Roy had
no right to delay progress in the talks by
Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian
parties had refused to attend the talks
because Sir Roy had found messages
sent from the Government were "unsatisfac-
tory." African delegates to the talks yester-
day called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his
negotiations with Sir Roy's representative,
Mr. Julius Greenfield. He was at Che-
quers last week-end. They said they
regarded with "growing anger" the "gross
and unconstitutional" interference by
Sir Roy's Federal Government in the
Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian parties
had found messages sent from the Government were
called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his negotiations with
Sir Roy's representative, Mr. Julius Greenfield. He was
with "growing anger" the gross and unconstitutional"
interference by Sir Roy's Federal Government in the talks.
Informal talks at Lancaster House will
resume today. President Kennedy today
defended the appointment of a Negro as
his Housing Minister. It has aroused
strong opposition from the anti-Negro
senators of the Deep South. The negro
is Mr. Robert Weaver of New York. One
of his tasks will be to see there is no
racial discrimination in Government
B.Kaufmann
resume today. PRESIDENT KENNEDY today
defended the appointment of a Negro as
Deep South. The negro is Mr. Robert #
Weaver of New York. One of his tasks will
be to see there is no racial discrimination
in Government and State housing
projects.
Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume
today. PRESIDENT KENNEDY today defended
the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister.
Robert Weaver of New York. One of his tasks
will be to see there is no racial discrimination
in Government and State housing projects.
Senator Allen Ellender of Louisiana sparked
off the opposition by telling a television
that Weaver once had Communist affiliations.
The Senate Banking Committee, which is headed
by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson,
of Virginia - met today in closed session
to discuss Weaver's appointment. Senator
to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several
complaints about Weaver's loyalty.
Senator Allen Ellender, of Louisiana,
sparked off the opposition by telling a
television audience it was "current
Washington gossip" that Weaver once had
Communist affiliations. The Senate Banking
Committee, which is headed by another
Southern Senator - Willis Robertson, of
Virginia - met today in closed session to
discuss Weaver's appointment. Senator
Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter
to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received
Senator Allen Ellender, of Louisiana,
sparked off the opposition by telling a
television audience it was "current Washington
tions. The Senate Banking Committee, which
is headed by another Southern Senator -
Willis Robertson, of Virginia - met today in
closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment.
Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a
letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several
complaints about Weaver's loyalty.
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's
alleged association with organisations black-
listed by the Government. Immediately
Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator
Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation had reported on Mr. Weaver.
He believed he would perform "outstanding
service" in his post. Senator Robertson's
committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's
nomination before it can be con-
# sidered by the full Senate.
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's
saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation had
reported on Mr. Weaver. He believed
he would perform "outstanding service"
in his post. Senator Robertson's committee
has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it
can be considered by the full Senate.
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged
association with organisations black-listed by the
Government. Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter
to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau
of Investigation had reported on Mr. Weaver.
He believed he would perform "outstanding
service" in his post. Senator Robertson's
committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's
full Senate.
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough
over West Germany's cash offer to help
America's balance of payments position.
He said bluntly in Washington yester-
day that the offer - 357million - was
not good enough. And he indicated
that his Government would try to get
Germany to pay more. He did not
mention personal talks with Dr.
Adenauer, the West German Chancellor.
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough
America's balance of payments position. He
said bluntly in Washington yesterday that
the offer - 357million - was not good enough.
would try to get Germany to pay more. He
did not mention personal talks with Dr.
Adenauer, the West German Chancellor.
tough over West Germany's cash offer to
He said bluntly in Washington yesterday
that the offer - 357million - was not good
enough. And he indicated that his
Government would try to get Germany to
pay more. He did not mention personal
talks with Dr. Adenauer, the West
German Chancellor.
But he said discussions "on a higher
level than in the past" might be useful.
The President will probably discuss the
problem with Dr. Brentano, the West German
Foreign Minister, who is due in Washington
next week. A big slice of Germany's "aid"
debt to America. United States officials
But he said discussions "on a higher
level than in the past" might be useful.
The President will probably discuss the
German Foreign Minister, who is due in
Washington next week. A big slice of
Germany's "aid" is the early payment
of a 210million debt to America. United
States officials quickly point out that
this is money due to America anyway.
And they are unimpressed by the Germans' claim
Americans say Germany is having it too
good and is not paying for the past
or for the present. The Adenauer Government
flatly rejected attempts by the Eisenhower
Government to get them to pay a regular
troops in Germany.
These support costs are a big drain on
America's dollar reserves. Dr. Adenauer's
offer of 357 million. President Kennedy's
rejection of it is a painful blow to the
West German Government. It will now have
to pay more - and increase taxation to do
so - or run the obvious # risks in upsetting
the new American administration.
dollar reserves. Dr. Adenauer's answer is the
once-and-for-all cash offer of 357million. President
West German Government. It will now have to pay
more - and increase taxation to do so - or
run the obvious risks in upsetting the new
American administration.
And, since this is election year in West
Germany, Dr. Adenauer is in a tough
spot. Joyce Egginton cables: President
Kennedy at his Washington Press con-
ference admitted he did not know
Russia in missile power. He said he
was waiting for his senior military
aides to come up with the answer on
February 20.
And, since this is election year in West
he did not know whether America was
lagging behind Russia in missile power.
He said he was waiting for his senior
military aides to come up with the answer
on February 20.
This surprising statement was a sharp about-
face from his warnings during the
Presidential election campaign. He claimed
slackness in the Eisenhower Administration
had caused America to lag behind Russia
in nuclear development. President Kennedy
did his best to avoid giving Pressmen
a direct answer. George Brown
CHILDREN TWO men who are poles apart
in personality last night dominated
Mr. Brown, passionate and warm-hearted, led
Labour's attack on the higher health
charges. Mr. Powell, white-faced and outwardly
ment - and ended by inciting Labour M Ps
to angry uproar. One dealt with the human
issue behind the Health Service; the other
tried to show that the balance-sheet must
always come first.
Mr. Brown, passionate and warm-hearted,
led Labour's attack on the higher health
charges. Mr. Powell, white-faced and
outwardly unemotional, replied with a
statistical statement - and ended by inciting
Labour M Ps to angry uproar. One dealt
with the human issue behind the Health
Service; the other tried to show that the
balance-sheet must always come first.
doubt. For the Tories were massed
censure motion on the Government for
"undermining the Health Service" and
able to bear them. Mr. Brown
declared that the policy under censure
was monstrous. It had offended many
people far beyond the ranks of Labour
supporters.
The result of the vote was not in doubt.
their whips to defeat a censure motion
on the Government for "undermining the
Health Service" and placing heavy burdens
Brown declared that the policy under
censure was monstrous. It had offended
many people far beyond the ranks of
Labour supporters.
The Press, many doctors and public were
denouncing the proposals. He quoted from
this letter which Mr. Gaitskell had received:
"My background is a doctor of 68, who
has practised medicine for 43 years, chiefly
as a panel doctor. "I am a lifelong
Conservative. I am horrified and amazed
by my party's proposal to prostitute the
whole principle of the State service and
people.
healing the sick, my considered
opinion is that anybody supporting
the increased charges is a wicked,
old -." Mr. Brown went on: "We
are dealing with a noble edifice which
improve it, but it has got a
from the real problems to fiddling about
"After a lifetime of helping others and
healing the sick, my considered opinion is that
anybody supporting the increased charges is a
are dealing with a noble edifice which
needs an imaginative architect to improve
it, but it has got a quantity surveyor. We
have descended from the real problems to
fiddling about with bills of cost.
We believe that a comprehensive medical service, free to the patient
at the point of need and with one standard for all sick
people, is good and attainable. "We remain for it. But the Tories
never were." Interrupted by angry Tories, Mr. Brown retorted:
service, free to the patient at the point
of need and with one standard for all
"We remain for it. But the Tories
never were." Interrupted by angry Tories,
Mr. Brown retorted: "The jackals bay
different - fundamentally different from that of Labour. They
would provide an ambulance service for the absolutely
wretched - but it would not be too comfortable nor too easy to
ceiling on health spending and started charges, Mr. Brown
done in 1950 because of the financial strain of
the Korean war.
Then Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to the
unsmiling Mr. Powell. He demanded that instead
of taking it out of the patients Mr. Powell should
take ruthless action against the drug making
industry, whose profits had risen by up to 400
per cent. in the last eight years.
In fact, the Tories made it worse now
to make it in 1950. And as a percentage
fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent. Then
Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to
that instead of taking it out of the
whose profits had risen by up to 400 per
"Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out of mothers,
children and sick people than to take on this vast
industry," Mr. Brown commented icily. "Let us have a
full inquiry into the cost of drugs and the pharmaceutical
industry." The health of children today owed much
affluence it seemed it could not be carried on.
"Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out
to take on this vast industry," Mr.
Brown commented icily. "Let us have a
full inquiry into the cost of drugs and
the pharmaceutical industry." The health
of children today owed much to the welfare
food scheme. It was maintained during
carried on.
When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps cheered for
a full minute - and even his bitterest opponents
on defence joined in. Mr. Powell devoted half his speech
on which indeed the Government is making progress.
His basic defence of the Health Service cuts was that
"even after the proposed changes the net cost of the
When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps
cheered for a full minute - and even his
bitterest opponents on defence joined in.
details of plans for improving the hospital
service, on which indeed the Government is
making progress. His basic defence of the
Health Service cuts was that "even after
service to the Exchequer will have increased
over three years by 20 per cent.
"That cannot continue without either
development being limited or an
adjustment being made in financing."
The Government decided to adjust
the financing - which Mr. Powell
undermining - the service. Answering the
foods would still be free in families
receiving regular National Assistance
"That cannot continue without either development
being limited or an adjustment being made
in financing." The Government decided to
adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell
claimed was underpinning - not undermining -
the service. Answering the attack on
"economic charges" for welfare foods, Mr.
Powell said that all these foods would
still be free in families receiving regular
the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was
underpinning - not undermining - the service.
Answering the attack on "economic charges"
for welfare, Mr. Powell said that all these
foods would still be free in families receiving
regular National Assistance grants.
MR. Macmillan has picked a strong "brains trust"
team to negotiate terms for joining the Common Market.
de Gaulle's official welcome last week
taken as a friendly gesture in Whitehall,
but no more than that.
the Prime Minister to Paris was dropped
Instead Mr. Macmillan will rely on a
hand-picked team under the leadership of
Sir Pierson Dixon, Britain's Ambassador to
France, to back Mr. Edward Heath, Lord
Privy Seal, who is charged with the conduct
of negotiations with the Six. At the same
time the Prime Minister has offered
Commonwealth Governments every facility possible to
safeguard their interests
in touch in London. Three of them - Canada, Australia,
New Zealand - will have strong delegations at an opening
meeting in London on Monday. Once the Common
Market's Council of Ministers draws up the procedure
for negotiations in a fortnight's time, these Commonwealth
countries can arrange for observers to advise the British
negotiating team.
The team is composed of experienced
son Dixon has a wide reputation as
a skilful backstage negotiator since
his days as Britain's chief UN dele-
gate. Second in command is Mr.
Eric Roll, 53-year-old Deputy Secre-
tary at the Ministry of Agriculture,
Food, and Fisheries. The Foreign Office
is represented by Sir Roderick Barclay
Other leading members are: Sir Henry Lintott from
the Commonwealth Relations Office, Sir William
Corell-Barnes (Colonial Office), Mr. G. R. Bell
(Treasury), and Mr. G. H. Andrew (Board of Trade).
They will accompany Mr. Heath next month when
Market Commission, or wherever the Six decide
negotiations should be held.
Some of the problems were reviewed yesterday at a
meeting in Paris between M. Couve de Murville, French
a man with troubles enough back home - seems
fated to fly into trouble abroad. Last year it was
Ghana coinciding with the meeting of the Com-
first to be held in Africa. Only a few hours af-
at Accra this morning, hundreds of shop assistants
demonstrated outside the British-owned Kingsway
Stores, the largest in town.
that has paralysed the port of Takoradi for the past
Ghana Government introduced in July. Ghana's strong
man is not here to face the storm. President Nkrumah,
having made his contribution to the neutrals' conference
in Belgrade, has resumed his holiday on the Black
Sea and no one here professes to know when he
will return.
But in his absence his chief lieutenants have
not let him down. The strong arm of authority has
been raised against the strikers and is now beginning
to tell. Today's Ghanaian Times (motto: "The welfare
of the people is the supreme law") reports: "The
tion to deal ruthlessly with the strikers."
Nkrumah's Convention Party "after powerful addresses
by Comrades Krobo Edusei, Tawia Adamafio," and
others. Strong deeds followed strong words. In Takoradi
the Government adequate power to maintain all
essential services and ensure food supplies. Thus it
for anyone who "publishes a report likely to cause
alarm or prejudicial to public safety."
demonstrators, most of them shopgirls in overalls.
"If you have not dispersed by ten o'clock," he
told them, 'the police will act.' At five to ten
two minutes the crowd had gone.
If the threatened "counter-revolution" was not * to bring
the President back from his travels it might have been
thought that the muster from the 13 States of the
Commonwealth was an occasion worthy of his presence.
After all it was Mr. Nkrumah who suggested that this
year the Economic Consultative Council should meet
in Accra.
Minister, to do the honours as host, in which capacity
he held a reception tonight in Accra's Ambassador
Hotel. POLICE, on direct orders from the Cabinet, are
openly intimidating members of Earl Russell's nuclear-
disarming Committee of 100, the Committee claimed
yesterday. It said pressure was being put on
members and associates all over the country.
going out of action; Police were visiting
people "on no pretext whatsoever, except
with the committee was going too far; another
that anti-apartheid agitation was
all right, but support for the committee
by plain-clothes men. Committee-member Mr. George
Clark commented at a Press conference: "The
most extraordinary things are happening." Fifty
committee members will appear at Bow-street
today, including Lord Russell, Lady Russell,
Lord Boyd-Orr, the Rev. Michael Scott, and
They are required to show why they
should not be bound over for disturbing
the peace and for inciting a breach
of the peace. The summonses say they
are "likely to persevere in such unlawful
putting his affairs in order, and
packing a case, at his Chelsea home
Mr. Ralph Schoenman, said:
"He is not going to agree to be bound over. That will
probably mean jail and, though frail, he is very fit and
hopes to be allowed to do some writing." Back at
the Press conference, Mr. Clark said two committee
members tried a "plant" call on suspect phone. They
discussed a sit-down at Watford at 5.30 p.m. - none
was planned but police turned up.
Sir Roy Welensky said today that he no
longer accepted the good faith of Mr. Kenneth
said that Mr. Kaunda's United National Independence
National Congress, which was led by Mr. Kaunda
until he was outlawed in 1959. The record
of lawlessness among UNIP supporters went
Federal Parliament in Salisbury.
He cited cases in which hundreds of UNIP supporters
had been arrested or convicted since last year on
three weeks of the present trouble 287 incidents
had been reported in Northern Rhodesia. More
than 500 people - 167 of them members of
the UNIP - were convicted last month in the
Northern Province alone.
"Against this background must be taken Mr.
Kaunda's repeated statements that all he is
doing is in the name of non-violence," said
I don't accept his good faith." He said
Mr. Kaunda must know that his statements
had stimulated violence, but he had done
nothing to stop it.
"It is true he made a point of again being absent
from Northern Rhodesia when his followers have
indulged in such violence." But Sir Roy pointed out
that a few months ago Mr. Kaunda said that
if UNIP did not get its way what would happen
would make the Mau Mau in Kenya "seem like a
child's picnic."
JOHN DICKIE writes: Mr. Macmillan gave top
return from Scotland yesterday. He summoned Mr.
Iain Macleod, Colonial Secretary, and Mr. Duncan Sandys,
Commonwealth Relations Secretary for an hour's talks
at Admiralty House. A statement is expected today
to hold the door open for modifications to the
new Constitution provided law and order is maintained
in Northern Rhodesia.
Its terms have set the Prime Minister an exacting
problem. Mr. Sandys has warned of the risk of a
strong reaction from Sir Roy Welensky to any
suggestion that there may be fresh concessions to the
African nationalists. Mr. Macleod has ample evidence
from talks with Sir John Moffat, Northern Rhodesian
Liberal leader, and Mr. Kaunda, that the bulk
A ROYAL welcome for the Kabaka of
Buganda (King Freddie) from Princess
Elizabeth Bagaya of Toro, kneeling at the
foot of his airliner's steps at London Airport
kneeling with heads bowed. The princess,
aged 24, is now studying history at Cambri-
dge, where she is a friend of Prince William
King Freddie and three other hereditary rulers of
native kingdoms in Uganda arrived for talks with
Colonial Secretary Mr. Iain Macleod, before the
The question: Their status in an independent Uganda.
The thorniest problem for next week's conference is
rest of the country. A Government report has
recognised their rights and recommended a form of
federal association, but the four kings are not
and wait to hear the conference's proposals.
Then their views will be transmitted back.
MR. BUTLER, the Home Secretary, has decided
Government authority yet presented by the
has been cancelled and secret plans prepared
to deal with the mass sit-down rally planned
for Sunday in Parliament-square by the
Committee of 100, the anti-nuclear arms
group.
It was Mr. Butler who authorised action which
ended yesterday in 32 members of the
Committee of 100 being imprisoned for inciting
a breach of the peace. The committee's
president 89-year-old Earl Russell and
his 61-year-old wife were each jailed for
a week. Playwrights Arnold Wesker (The Kitchen)
and Robert Bolt (The Flowering Cherry) were
jailed for a month.
declare the whole rally illegal - whether
the demonstrators sit down or not - was
It was last used a year ago, to deal
with the St. Pancras rent riots. Today
Commissioner Sir Joseph Simpson to
draw up final plans for the "Battle
Measures agreed so far include: 1. A mass
call-out of police, special constables
and reserves, with 750 policemen posted
from outlying districts to stations in
the area - West End Central, Bow-street,
and Cannon-row.
MR. IAIN MACLEOD, the Colonial Secretary,
denied in the Commons last night that
there have been secret negotiations on
Rhodesia conference in London has been
boycotted by the two main settlers' parties -
the United Federal Party and the Dominion
Welensky, Prime Minister of the Central
African Federation, went to Chequers at
the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan.
But he said discussions "on a higher
level than in the past" might be
useful. The President will probably
discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano,
the West German Foreign Minister, who is
due in Washington next week. A big
slice of Germany's "aid" # is the early
payment of a 210million debt to America.
that this is money due to America
anyway.
He told them that their conception of social
services was wholly different - fundamentally
different from that of Labour. They would
provide an ambulance service for the absolutely
wretched - but it would not be too comfortable
nor too easy to get. Answering jeers that
it was Labour which first put a ceiling
on health spending and started charges, Mr.
Brown reminded the hostile Government benches
strain of the Korean war.
And up to ten years' imprisonment can be imposed
on anyone convicted of sabotage. These stern measures
had the desired effect today at Kumasi where the
strikers gave in, but in Takoradi, the chief storm centre,
they are still holding out despite the presence of 1,400
police and 16 armoured cars. And how did the
Government react when the strikers demonstrated in
Accra?
Today, for example, the Foreign Minister of Indo-
nesia arrived in Belgrade as the guest of the Yugoslav
Foreign Minister. In fact such Yugoslav activity has
been # particularly intensified in the past year
or so and though so far, apart from joint action
in the United Nations, these exchanges have not
been seen on any wider basis, President Tito
conference of neutralist leaders.
On the specific question of the use of Blue
Streak, Mr. Thorneycroft's task will be
only rocket and launcher in Europe to
have reached a sufficient stage of development
for adaptation as the first stage in
putting a heavy satellite into outer space.
There has also been some talk of adopting another
British rocket, Black Knight, for the second
own called Veronique which they would
like to see used.
To Mr. Macmillan, Mr Gaitskell said the
Prime Minister should begin to take
weapons within the Nato alliance. "Let us say
with the agreement of Kennedy, in
in central Europe of a zone of controlled
He decided that it would be a great error
to do so and to recall Parliament. But
there would be no hesitation in mobilising
if a further deterioration in the situation
warranted such a step. It would have to be
accompanied by other measures of a military,
who was winding up the foreign affairs
debate, said the Government could not
be party to accepting as a matter of
principle the imposed division of Germany.
ETU. In reply to the call for his resignation he said: "Our rules
say that if an official resigns he is not allowed to run again
for three years. "I have only 2 1/2 years to go before I retire,
so this is an invitation from my good friends of the TUC that
determination and tramples on Tunisians' right to independence.
of a third world war. The best way to rule out such a tragic
contingency would be to sign a peace treaty to remove the cancerous
growth of West Berlin's occupation status.
The big Powers involved in the Cold War
must of course keep out. The Americans were
justified in diverting naval ships in case
non-combatant help was wanted; but they
stressed that there was no intention to intervene
in fighting. Yesterday the ships turned away
again, satisfied that they were not required.
It is to be hoped that the UN will be
re-established in their port by negotiation
and that there will be no more outrages.
In any case, fahrenheit need not lose heart.
authorities ganged up to alter the habits
of the people. That effort was to enforce
the adoption of the twenty-four hour
clock. Then, also, the B.B.C. were
that the well-meaning corporation
became very unpopular.
Top of the table, at the moment, is the chemical industry.
Then comes engineering, followed by iron and steel.
Even the staid and timid Treasury is cheered by the
their faith with cash.
They'll be clapping the man who plays a straight theodolite next.
German mind. Not content with arguing that he was only an
efficient cog in the machine, he now claims that part of the
"decent, feasible and workable."
For many years my union had to present its views
to the two major conferences of the movement and
take a licking. For us, unity meant accepting
movement and having a go next time. Alongside
official policy and seeking to win majorities
for them.
AFTER ten days of intermittent, near fatal
ennui, the eleventh Berlin International
Film Festival was suddenly jolted back to
life by two extraordinary films, Bernhard
